# ImgDiscr3-HP - Intro
In this work, we present an image classifier based on convolutional neural networks, trained with over 850 images.
The purpose of this model is to classify hydroacoustic data generated by distributed acoustic sensors.

# Distributed acoustic sensors at Muroto
In brief, a distributed acoustic sensor consists of the interrogator unit and a fibre optic cable.
The interrogator unit is an optoelectronic device that sends periodic laser pulses, and measures the reflected light at different points along the fibre's length.
The fibre optic cable at Cape Muroto (Japan) rests on the seafloor spanning a distance of approximately 50km. 

# Research goals
With a sampling frequency of 1kHz and spatial spacing of .33m, the generated data from distributed acoustic sensors demand automated and efficient monitoring methods.
For that reason and to assist in the data analysis procedure undertaken by expert seismologists, the trained model ImgDiscr3-HP is used to classify three different types of hydroacoustic activity:
1. Geophysical data, e.g. tectonic tremors and microseismic (local) events.
2. Non-geophysical data, e.g. ships moving across the sea.
3. Background noise (i.e. non-event data)

# Classifier model specifics
The model is capable of classifying these three different types of hydroacoustic activity with an accuracy beyond 95% on the test set.
A Bayesian Optimisation procedure for hyperparameters (including number of convolution layers and optimiser learning rate) tuning was also used in order to reach this classification accuracy.

# Implementation
In the folder ./10-04_18-14 there is a file called "saved_model.pb". This is the trained classifier.
In the same folder, the "hist.csv" contains the training history (classification accuracy vs epoch number) of the model.
One can run the jupyter notebook "imgclass_test.ipynb" in order to test the trained model.


We welcome suggestions and/or future collaborations with other researchers interested in this work.


Written by Ioannis Matthaiou on 13/07/2023